# youtube
analysis of data on YouTube trends
Lucy Jiyoon Lee, Sabrina Hyejong Bang, Yiwen Chang
6 December 2019


Introduction
	Digital video is currently the biggest form of online content that users interact with—it was discovered that people dedicate ⅓ of their time online to watch videos, and this trend is expected to only grow larger. 
Such being the case, YouTube is currently the world’s largest video-sharing website and a common medium for people to share content with one another. Among its various features, “Trending” enables YouTube viewers to see a list of videos that are found compelling by a wide range of viewers, determined by its algorithm through factors such as likes, views, and comments in a certain period of time. As an increasing number of users rely on the “Trending” page for getting updates to society, it is vital to look at which videos end up on this list, but more importantly what factors affect the popularity of a video. Therefore, we have come up with a research question: “What factors predict YouTube content popularity?” With this question in mind, we will inspect variables on YouTube’s platform such as comments, likes, and dislikes that influence the number of views, which is the most significant measure of popularity. 

Hypothesis
Before conducting the research, we hypothesize that the number of views of a YouTube video increases with the number of likes and the number of comments, while it decreases with the number of dislikes. Also, we hypothesize that this trend is not only prevalent within the US but also in Canada and South Korea.
Data & Method
In order to analyze what factors affect how popular a YouTube video will be, we adopted our dataset from Kaggle, which contains daily records of up to 200 trending videos per day between November 2017 and June 2018. Datasets from numerous regions were reported, including the US, GB, DE, CA, FR, RU, MX, IN, KR, and JP; we decided to utilize the datasets for US, CA, and KR (United States, Canada, and Korea) for our analysis. The gist behind using these daily statistics is that YouTube uses a compound of several factors to determine the top trending videos of the year. 
This paper will focus on factors that reinforce user interactions including number of views, likes, dislikes, and comments of trending videos. The dependent variable in this paper is the number of views (views) because we define popularity as how many people have seen or viewed the videos. The explanatory variables are the number of likes (likes), the number of dislikes (dislikes), the number of comments (comment_count), the category a video belongs to (category_id), and the time of day a video was published at (time_of_day). First, the number of likes, dislikes, and comments show the accumulated number, respectively, at a given point in time. Next, videos are classified into 32 different categories, but we will focus on the top five in order to closely examine whether factors affect popularity differently depending on which category a video belongs to. Lastly, for the independent variable time_of_day, videos are classified into either “morning”, “afternoon”, “night”, or “midnight” given their published time.
	To answer our research question, we are using a mixed method. Specifically, we are using a combination of secondary data analysis also known as archival study and focus groups. Secondary data analysis is heavily relied upon because we are using datasets that were already collected on Kaggle for our primary purpose. Second, focus groups is also relied upon as we are using separate datasets with same variables across different countries to figure out whether factors affect the popularity of YouTube videos differently.

Analysis
	According to our hypothesis, we conduct the first regression of the number of views of videos published in the U.S. on the number of likes, the number of dislikes, and the number of comments. The regression result (figure 1) shows that the number of views has a positive relationship with the number of likes and the number of dislikes, and a negative relationship with the number of comments, which is completely different with our hypothesis. However, we realize that the difference could be caused by the strong correlation between the number of likes/dislikes and the number of comments. The correlation tests also show that the correlation between the number of likes and the number of comments is 0.80, and the correlation between the number of dislikes and the number of comments is 0.70. To avoid collinearity issues, we discard the two explanatory variables from the initial regression and conduct another regression of the number of views only on the number of comments. The second regression result (figure 2) then shows that the number of views actually has a positive relationship with the number of comments since the new regression does not have any collinearity issues. Since the two previous regressions are based on an extensive dataset including all American-published videos in a whole year, which could make some insignificant results significant with small p-values, we decide to do regressions using data of videos published only in the first three months of 2018. The regression results (figure 3 & figure 4) further proves the previous conclusion, which is that the number of views increases with the number of likes, dislikes, and comments. As we continue to explore the global datasets on YouTube videos, we want to see if the previous result also applies to the video trends in other countries.



We choose to analyze the data of videos in Canada and Korea, and the regression results all show that there is also a relationship between the number of views and the number of likes. After a high-level analysis, we separate the dataset by the top 5 most-viewed categories and the top 5 most-viewed channels. The top 5 most-viewed categories are Music, Entertainment, Film & Animation, Comedy, and People & Blogs. This shows that most people consider watching YouTube as a way to relax and entertain. 
 
Among the top 5 most-viewed channels, three of them fall into the Music category. However, some of the channels that have such a high number of views can attract the viewers by the celebrities’ social influence. For example, Ariana Grande’s music channels are the fifth most-viewed YouTube channels in our dataset. To possibly eliminate such biased factors, we decide to only focus on the most-viewed categories for further analysis. With the five datasets separated based on the top 5 most-viewed categories, we find out that there is no video published in the morning, which is from 6 am to 12 pm. According to our regression results (figure 5 – 9), for most of the categories, posting videos during midnight (12 am – 6 am) does boost the number of views significantly.
Furthermore, we analyze the seasonal effect on the number of videos published and the number of views. During the summer, which is from May to September, there were 40,949 videos published, whereas there were 28,275 videos published during the winter, which is from November to March. Therefore, the number of videos published in the summer is 31% more than the number of videos published in the winter. In terms of the number of views, the number of views on average in the summer is 38% more than the number of views in the winter. Therefore, publishing videos in the summer on average can get a higher number of views than in the winter. Overall, our analysis shows that the number of views is positively correlated with the number of likes, dislikes, and comments. The factors we believe that can help the videos affect the number of views are video categories, the publish time during the day, and the publish season. 

Limitations
	Yet, there are some limitations to our study. First and foremost, our research involves a selection bias—only those who have watched the videos can like those videos. The problem here is that we are predicting view count using the number of likes it already received, even though the number of likes depends on the number of views in the first place. For our analysis to be plausible, we needed the variable future views that desirably would be collected in a later period than when the data for likes was collected. Because our dataset only included counts that were collected in one period of time, in other words, views and likes were recorded together, using the variable likes as a predictor for views is contradictory, and thus in error. 
	Another limitation was the absence of a predictor: subscribers, which is a non-negligible factor in predicting view count. Our dataset did not include the number of subscribers for the channels the videos were collected from. Because there is a greater probability that a video will generate more views when a channel has a large number of subscribers, by not including the variable, we failed to take into account viewers who would watch the videos due to other factors such as celebrities and social influencers. 
	In addition, as mentioned earlier, there was a collinearity problem with the variables likes, dislikes, and comment count in working with regression, generating a negative coefficient value for comment_count.
Last but not least, there are various other factors outside the dataset that could also be affecting the number of views on YouTube, such as cultural differences (different results for different countries), environmental changes, etc.. 

Conclusion
	Ultimately, our research strived to inspect the question, “What factors predict YouTube content popularity?” by utilizing multiple variables in the dataset. While we hypothesized that the number of views will be positively correlated with the number of likes and comments, and negatively correlated with the number of dislikes, the analysis showed otherwise, with a positive correlation between views and likes, dislikes and comment count. Furthermore, we studied the factors, publish time of day and publish season, and discovered a positive relationship among midnight publish time (12am - 6am), summer season (May - September), and view count. Even though the study had some limitations, our analysis generated interesting correlations in regards to YouTube view count, an overall measure of content popularity. Looking beyond the scope of our research, in a world where video content is growing rapidly both for its creators and viewers,  it is important to consistently study the relevant trends and the working algorithm behind them. 
Appendix


